Answer these below Questions:




What jdk contains or composed of and define each components?
jdk contains jvm and java API platform. jvm is java virtual machine and java API is an application programming interface
 and also a collection of prewritten packages, classesand also their methods.
What is IDE?
IDE stands for Integrated Development Environment.

What are the IDEs available in the market to support java?
Eclipse and intellj.
Explain the entire java life cycle.
Write code in a text editor. This is the source code, ends with .java
Load the code in to the java compiler.
The java compiler creates the byte codes (ends with .class)
Then this can be used by the JVM to run it. 
Then It can be used by the computer operating system to execute. 
what is class?
A class is the blue print for objects which are individually created.

What is object?
Objects refer to a particular instance of a class. They could be 
Variable and function. 


What is the entry point of an application?
Main method is the entry point of an application.

Why main is static?
Main method is static otherwise it would be ambuguity.
What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?
We can define only methods in the interface and we can do any other
Functionality in an abstract class except create a new object.
i.e in an abstract class we can not create like phone ph = new phone.

Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class ? if not how do you use it ?
No , we need concreat class to extend from abstract and to implement
From interface.
what is Access Specifier? 
access specifiers regulate access to classes , fields and methods.
What is OOP ? Define each feature of java OOP.
Object oriented program which are 
Abstraction, encapsulation, inheritence and polymorphism.

What is API? Name list of API that you have used so far.
An application programming interface.	Scanner, String, BufferReader, FileReader,Random,
IOEXCEPTION,Mathfunction  
Does java support multiple inheritance?
no
What is method overloading and when it happens?

overloading is creating several methods with the same name which differ from each other
It only happens when you’re explicitly calling a method.
What is method overriding and when it happens?
Explain exceptions in java and how to handle it
It is used for catching error to fix it.
What is static keyword in java? How it has been used in variables and methods ? 
What is final and how it has been used variables and methods?
Final is keyword when it is used in java it cannot be change.
What is final, finally and finalize?
Final is keyword when it is used in java it cannot be change and
in try catch method finally can be used for catching final error
and finalize is used for when a file or data open and then to close it.

What is a constructor ?
A constructor is which creates new object from class.
What is "this" keyword in java ?
This keyword helps the the private variable to setup to public.
What is JVM stand for ?
Java virtual machine.
What version of java are you using?
Java 7
What is JAR stand for ?  
JAR stands for Java Archive.

What is compile time and run time?
 compile time refers to  the operations performed by a compile
Compile time give you syntax error, typechecking error
runtime may refer to the period during which a computer program is executing
What is heap?
The heap is the runtime data area from which memory for all
for all class instances and arrays is allocate.



How java manage it's memory?

